# PasswordManager
This Java project encrypts log-in data locally with symmetric algorithms. Data is displayed in a table GUI and can be copied, edited and removed at any point in time. 

## Features
This password manager allows great freedom of security-related configurations of the user and is rather aimed at experienced people in the field of cryptography. In the future, more configuration options will most likely be added.

Database entries are displayed in a table model. The GUI gives you freedom to:
- add entries
- edit entries
- copy credentials
- sort entries
- search for entries
- generate passwords

The credentials are encrypted with a derivation of your chosen vault key.

Symmetric encryption can be performed with these algorithms:
- AES/Rijndael
- Serpent
- Twofish
- Blowfish

Cryptographic hash checksums can be generated using these algorithms:
- SHA-256
- MD5

The chosen algorithms and the vault key can be edited later in the database settings.

## Requirements
- Java Runtime Environment Version 8 or above

## How to use
### Create a database
You can create a database when clicking the correct button in the main GUI. Then, you have to enter a master key that will be your vault key. It can be generated by the Java crypto library or a custom generator based on Java's SecureRandom. The `Save Database At` field takes a relative or absolute path to where the cipher file should be saved. You can decide between many algorithms for hash and encryption. My recommendation for excellent security is `Serpent/CTR/NoPadding` for encryption and `SHA-256` for hashing. By clicking the button on the bottom, you will create the database.
### Open a database
Opening a database is possible by entering a relative or absolute path to the text field in the main GUI, or browse it with the file chooser button. After that, you will be asked to enter your vault key. When submitting it, you can see your database when it was correct.
### Use a database
In the database, you can add entries by clicking the button on the bottom. You can edit, remove or copy parts of entries by right-clicking them in the table. Saving the database after changes is important, and you will not be notified if not. 

## Credits
- Inspiration: KeePass
- Libraries: Gnu-crypto, Twofish (Schneier)
- Testing: StillerFuchs

## License
GPL-3
